YouTube, it's Chris. Welcome back to the
channel. In this video, I'm going to
help you guys get the highest frames and
lowest latency out of Battlefield 6 with
your PC. Strap in for the video, guys.
It's going to be a long one. There's a
lot of quirks with the engine I've been
testing. Been doing nothing but testing
the past couple of days. Like to give
myself a shout out. If you guys are
struggling with frames and latency, even
after you follow this video, you might
want to look at upgrading your hardware
or doing a new build. I have a build
guide here. It goes to a PC part picker
build list. best bang for buck without
breaking the bank. Go check that out.
That is up to date. If you want to look
at the bias in Windows stuff side of
things, I have a video here, especially
if you look at want to look at doing a
fresh install. You don't have to do a
fresh install to follow this video. It
will cover the things that matter.
Generally speaking, Windows
optimizations don't matter too much, but
it covers everything. as long as you can
keep your CPU and GPU utilization down
um from things that are running in the
background. Generally speaking, that's
probably one of the most important
things.
As far as BIOS stuff, just make sure
you've got your BIOS updated. You will
need TPM on and secure boot on for this
game and at minimum, absolutely minimum,
have the XMP or expo profile on for your
RAM kit. The tools I'm testing this
video are with Nvidia's app overlay,
Nvidia stats. It shows accurate latency
readings.
A lot of you guys can use this too.
There's an AMD equivalent as well now,
so you might want to check that out with
the full AMD driver install. MSI After
Burners overlay for stats, which also
includes present mon, which is a tool
from Intel.
And for confirmation not trusting
Nvidia's tool also when we use the
method to uncap the frame rate my
external latency tool.
I've made a custom portal map 1 v32
bots.
This is to move any variation from the
benchmarks cuz generally speaking most
of the config stuff is actually GPU
related other than some things like mesh
quality which can affect the CPU. Here's
the experience code if you guys want to
use it yourself too.
I'm also hosting the server offline just
to remove any variation as far as server
tick rate or anything like that. When I
click on here, I'm simply just selecting
host locally. When I spawn into my
custom server, I'm running all the way
up here so the bots leave me alone.
I've decided to test about here. the
bots will run around underneath me and
at least it gets the CPU going somewhat
and it's more of a consistent test
environment. On default settings, the
game mostly put me on ultra and high
enabled plus boost on. On default
settings, the game looks like this.
With optimized settings, it will pull
everything in low. There's a few extra
things in the config that can be turned
down, too, which help frame rate that
you can't do in the game.
and it should look like this.
Now, please ignore the frame rate
difference. I have a 5090 here.
There are much weaker GPUs out there
than mine that would really benefit from
going very low. And a lot of my
community are really about the lowest
latency. So, generally speaking, go pro.
If that's not your type of thing, I
don't know why you're watching this
video. To import my config, search frey
GitHub.
Go to my GitHub,
click on GitHub game configs.
There are two ways to do this. The easy
way and the hard way. And I'll also show
you guys how to revert it. The easy way,
click on your start menu, type scripts.
Click on this one here.
Scroll down. Make sure this is turned on
so you can run scripts.
Then on the GitHub underneath IWR, click
on this to copy the code. Search
PowerShell on in your start menu. Right
click PowerShell, run as administrator.
Right click or Ctrl +V to paste. Then
press enter.
Word of warning, this config will reset
your bindings. Everything other than
graphics settings will be on a default
state. So if you want to back out now or
back up your bindings, maybe go take
some photos or if you want to back up
your config, there should be a
Battlefield 6 folder in here. You can
drag that somewhere else if you wanted
to back that up.
Press number two and then press enter.
Press number one and then press enter.
Make sure you ran the game once first.
That's fairly important.
I'm going to do that now. Reason why you
need to do this, it needs to generate
another file so this config actually
gets imported and doesn't reset. Just
make sure you've launched the game first
at some stage. That should be enough.
I'm just going to press Alt F4 now. The
documents folder should have been
created. And yes, it has been. So, we're
good. Press enter and continue.
You need to select your Battlefield 6
install folder.
It'll be different for everyone. My one
is in steam steam apps common
and Battlefield 6. You need to select
that folder there. That's where the game
files are. Just select that folder and
press select folder.
For the EA client, mine is in EA
Battlefield 6, but it may be somewhere
different for you guys.
The Epic client will be very similar.
So, whichever one you're using,
make sure you just select the
Battlefield 6 folder and then press
select folder.
AMD users will get an error here. Just
press close or ignore. Don't worry about
that one. And then it says Battlefield 6
config applied. You can press any key.
We can close this window.
You guys want to know what that did.
It created a Battlefield 6 documents
folder. It'll also do it for one drive
accounts as well, just in case.
Creates a config for the EA client,
creates a config for the Steam client,
and also creates a config for the Epic
client.
It also created a config file in the
game folder that we had to select cuz
it's different for everyone called user
config.
And for Nvidia GPU users, this force
resizable bar on because it is not white
listed by the driver yet and it is not
on by default.
This just forces it on for this game.
What does the config do?
The config simply turns everything down
to the lowest setting possible
and turns things down extra that you
can't do in the game. As an example, GST
render enlightened. I believe that's
real-time global illumination that can't
be turned to zero or off in the game.
And there are a bunch of other things in
here that can't either. So, they're
turned down to zero or turned off.
can't think of everything, but I do
believe that weapon depth of field is
another option that can't be turned off
that needs to be done in the config, but
there are a bunch of bunch of them in
here
that let you go lower in the config and
you can in the game. What did the user
config do?
User config is some extra things you can
do kind of like console commands that
get loaded every time the game boots or
a map boots.
It gives a nice little FPS overlay,
disables depth of field, which is
technically motion blur, suppression
blur,
disables motion blur,
and removes some lighting from certain
areas of maps, which will make your menu
look really dark. But this one really
helps with GPU usage and really will
help with people with lower end graphics
cards. If you guys want a clean FPS
overlay like I have up on the top left,
here's how you do that.
We have Perf overlay FPS display offset
X and PF overlay FPS display offset Y.
This is mainly for FPS display scale 3.
You want to set your Y to minus 50.
Okay. And you need to figure out if
you're on 4K, 1440p, or 1080p, whatever
the resolution you're playing at. I'm
playing at 1440p, so I need to set Y to
2365.
Okay, do that.
Save it. and then your FPS overlay will
be up in the top left really clean.
Okay, this is option number two. If you
don't want to use the IWI script and
you're not comfortable with that and you
feel like that, you know, there could be
a back end in there, the code's always
open and available. You can read it if
you like, but if you don't trust me, I
understand. You can go ahead and
download the Battlefield Config
manually. Let's go find Battlefield 6.
You need to find the zip file. Go ahead
and download the raw file.
Now it's downloaded. Now we'll open it
in our downloads folder and we'll go
extract. Here
there's a rebar on inspector one. This
is only for Nvidia cards. Don't bother
if you're on AMD. This simply just
forces on resizable bar for the game
profile.
You can simply drag this to here. Then
press okay.
The user config. We copy that or cut
that whatever you like. go find our game
folder. So, the moment I'm using the
Steam client right now, we'll just paste
it in there. You won't need to replace
because that won't be existing if you
are doing this for the first time.
Now, the prof save profile, we'll copy
or cut that. We'll go to our documents
folder, Battlefield 6 settings. For the
EA client, it's going to be in here.
We're using the sim client at the
moment. For the Epic client, it's going
to be here. not using that at the
moment. We're using the Steam client for
the Steam client's going to be here. You
just paste it and then overwrite it.
Replace the file in destination. So
that's how you can do that manually. Now
let's say you guys want to revert this
completely.
That's no problem. Google Nvidia
Inspector
release. Go ahead and download it.
We'll extract it.
We'll open up inspector.
We'll search Battlefield 6. There it is.
There. Scroll down. You'll see rebar
enable. Click that to revert it. Press
apply changes.
The second one to revert. Go to your
documents folder. Delete the Battlefield
6 folder. And the last thing to revert,
find your game folder,
delete the user config. Now, when you
launch the game, it'll be in a default
state. That's how you revert it. When
you've launched the game and use the
config, make sure you select your
resolution and refresh rate correctly to
your native. And in this game, either
select full screen or borderless. You
can play borderless totally fine. It's a
DirectX12 title. It uses hardware
independent flip. Fine.
Do not play windowed mode at all.
Now, the game menu will look very dark.
That is by design, and it will not look
like that in a real match. Same with the
test range. It will look really, really
dark. But the test range looks like, and
I'll show you guys a real match. As you
can see, the test range looks really,
really dark here, just like the menu.
But in a real match, it'll be totally
fine.
The soldier will look really dark here.
And as you can see here, in a real
match, it's totally fine. You just might
need to turn your brightness up a little
bit. Here's me in the game. Now,
obviously, my brightness is at 50, but
you can just turn it up a bit and it's
totally fine.
Okay, let's just say you have a good
graphics card and you can afford to have
that setting um not use that setting at
all or you just completely hate it. Like
completely completely hate it. I
understand.
Go to your settings.
Go to system. Make sure you have command
console enabled. You're going to need
that for later anyway.
Press the console key, which is the one
next to one on the top left of your
keyboard underneath escape. Just type
light
render light tile sees path enable.
Press a one. As you can see, even for me
in this scenario where it's just more of
a GPUbound scenario, it lowers my frame
rate. So, people that have very, very
weak cards in real matches, it's going
to make a difference for you. But a lot
of you guys with high-end cards, it's
probably not going to be worth to run
this. So, if you want to permanently do
that because every time the game and a
map loads, this is going to reset back
to the dark.
So to fix that, what we need to do, we
need to go to our user config in the
game folder, right click, go edit.
We can either delete this line entirely
or we can set it to one cuz one is
default. And now every time we load a
map or just reload the game, it's not
going to be dark like that. So look
guys, you probably don't really want to
run this if you have a very good card
and mainly playing like, you know, not
everything on ultra, but it it will help
a lot of people. Even for me, um, in
certain maps where it won't boost
frames, it does lower my GPU usage by
about 15%. So that's quite quite nice
and it lowers latency a little bit,
getting your GPU usage down.
Now, I had some of you say in my older
videos, "What if I don't want my game to
look like a potato, but I still want to
have good frames?" So, my config would
probably be the light tile path on, just
like the default value, like how it
looks now. I'd probably go into your
graphics menu. We don't have to play
with the config for this one. We can
just go into the graphics menu after
we've applied the config.
I would definitely want to crank up
texture quality. I would go overkill or
ultra depending on how good your card
is. For most of you, probably just do
ultra. and texture filtering to
overkill, which will be 16 times. That
usually has no effect on frame rate at
all. Um, and it just makes textures at a
distance look clearer. Um, if you have a
fairly good CPU, you could try upping
mesh quality. It is distance
view distance scale. But this is
actually quite toxic on the CPU. And
even for me, when I find I turn this one
up, it actually affects my 1% lows quite
a lot. I don't mind the popping in and
out from a distance, so I sort of just
leave it. Those are kind of the settings
that I would be running. And we'll have
to reload the game for that. So, I'll
quickly do that now. There you go.
Texture is looking a lot better. Now, if
you hate jaggies, I get it. But the
problem is this game only really has
TAA. And TAA adds a little bit of blur
and motion, unfortunately. But if you
hate jaggies that much, guess you could
go in and you could turn the
anti-aliasing up. So, use a technique of
um TAA. We also do have DLA that's going
to be a lot more GPU heavy than just
TAA. You can see here 350 with that
just TAA
an extra 50. All right.
I I probably really wouldn't recommend
DAA even though DA is probably the
probably the clearest in motion. DAA has
TAA baked into it just so you guys know,
right? So if you hate jaggers, you could
do that.
Um, and if you find it too much, the
sharpening too much, especially with the
Jaggers, you might want to look at
turning the sharpening down because the
config kind of
maxes that out. Now, let's say you did
the config, but you didn't want to do
any of that and you still want more
frames and your your GPU is still pegged
and your CPU can still spit out more
frames, but it's waiting for the GPU to
um, well, then you probably instead you
probably want to start playing around
with some of the upscaling techniques.
For me, dynamic resolution scale
actually didn't work. it might for you
on your system. Um, but you could try
playing around with some of the
FSR and DLSS techniques. So, these
weren't add input lag. They're just
running a lower resolution
um and upscaling with a sharpening
filter. So, you you can try some of
these um as an example, you know, and
try the different presets. See how it's
boosting my frames there, but it's
actually not rendering native pixels at
all. It's it's render uh rendering lower
pixels. So, some of you guys with weaker
cards might have to experiment with
that. Um, that is much better option
than actually just setting your render
resolution all the way down is another
way of doing it, but that looks
horrible. Um, and much better option
rather than just running a lower
resolution. Um, look at using those
methods if your GPU is pegged even after
this config. I want to quickly show you
guys some important settings that I
didn't import for you because a lot of
people were complaining about my old
configs giving my bindings and
everything. And for medium and border
config, it would have to do absolutely
everything. So camera effects, I'm just
going to cover the important ones here.
I'd recommend turning all sorts of
motion off. Okay. And crosshair
projection, you want that off. You want
the center of your screen, the center of
your screen with your crosshair. Please
just turn that off. Okay. Um, now camera
shake amount. We can actually turn this
off entirely by going to the config line
config um
file. So we're going to do that now.
Let's just set it to something that we
can recognize. As an example, 69. So,
let's set it to 69. And then we're going
to quit the game.
Now, we've exited the game. Go to prof
save in the config location folder.
Okay. You I recommend downloading
Notepad++ for this. Okay. I don't know
if you're going to be able to do this in
the normal Notepad. So, use Notepad++.
Will edit with Notepad++. I want you to
search shake.
Okay. Camera shake. There it is. Camera
shake. scale. It should be at 69 what we
set it to. Let's set this to zero.
Okay. And let's boot the game.
Okay. Now that the game's open,
go back into graphics. Oh no. Where was
it? Accessibility camera effects. You'll
see camera shake amount is at zero. As
long as you don't touch this here, it'll
be at zero. Now, this is shaped by
explosions and it doesn't really make a
huge difference, but some people really
wanted to know how to do that. So,
that's how to do that. Game finally has
a sensitivity matcher type of thing. So,
you know, if I was playing on
43.3 cm, which is kind of what I sort of
mostly made in Kovac, at least for
hipfire,
aim beam sights different on 1600 DPI.
That'd be like the closest. So, that's
kind of a nice feature. Some of you guys
like onetoone sensitivities with
one-time sights. You can quite simply
get that by turning off universal
soldier aiming. Some people are
reporting better mouse input by turning
off zoom transition sensitivity
smoothing. Now, this is going to be on
by default no matter what if you do have
universal soldier aiming on. Okay. But
yeah, and I'll show you guys it won't do
that for zooming in scopes, but it will
do it for one time scopes. So, let's
return to the menu and apply a one time
scope. Okay, the one times
I'll get up my Kovac sensitivity matcher
thing, right? What was the sensitivity
again? 43.1.
I can use this 43.1.
Enter. And it will spin us around.
All right, I'll aim at the head here.
Spin around. Perfect. Aim down sight.
Spin around. So, that's how you can get
one to one, but it won't be like that
with the um zooming in scopes. I
wouldn't really recommend running one to
one at all to be honest, but that's just
really personal preference. Um if you
guys really want to know my
recommendations, I would put this back
on just in case. transition smoothing,
although technically it is apparently
always on when universal soldier aiming
is on.
And I would honestly use 0% coefficient
because here's the thing with 0%
coefficient.
It'll always be the same sensitivity to
the edge of your screen, no matter what
field of view. So I'm going to look at
the edge of the wall here. This is the
edge of the wall here. So say this was
like, I don't know, 6 cm to go from that
to that. All right. And then we use a
zoom scope. Let's just apply 1.75 just
for the sake of it.
All right. Come back to this wall here.
If I zoom in now, I'm going to have the
edge of the wall to my screen again. And
if I go from there to there, it's
actually the same distance.
But a lot of you guys don't like that. I
get it. I really want you to give a go.
Just give it a go. And if you feel like
it is too slow, just make your hipfire
sensitivity faster. Okay. Other settings
people recommend to use are 133 which is
default for most games nowadays
and a lot of people like 1.78 cuz they
say it works best with a 16x9 monitor.
This is all preference. Use what you
play better with and what you hit your
shots with. Do want to show you guys
something OP though. Infantry passenger
keybinds.
Steady scope. Set this to aim down
sight. Okay,
which is your right click button. Set
that to aim down sight. And also under
the hold click button,
set steady scope to toggle. That'll make
your life a lot easier holding your
breath as a sniper. To hold your breath,
you do need to be the sniper class
though. And a lot of the vehicles and
the aircraft, you know, the jets and the
helies and stuff that sometimes they
have a little like little boost. Here's
the transport. I would recommend just
setting boost to W as well as forward.
So forward and W. Just make your life
easier. You can do that for the um heli
and for the jets as well. Worth a shot.
Or input should always be on that way.
It doesn't matter what you've done on
your Windows machine. If you've got
acceleration on the desktop, you won't
have acceleration. You won't have
acceleration in the game. Now reflex
we're going to talk a little about a
little bit later. It is always forced on
for Nvidia cards and is causing a 300fps
cap.
So, I don't know what's really going on,
but
turning the setting to disabled.
Technically, it's still on.
Removing the reflex files will remove
the cap, but it actually disables reflex
entirely. So, I've noticed no difference
between these settings, but I will show
you later. Actually, let's do a quick
sneak peek of showing you that.
I'm going to set my render resolution
scale to 200 from 1440p
which will actually be scaling 5K
just so we can see if Reflex is working.
Now, do you see latency up on the top
right? Our latency is 20. Quite high.
Let me turn this just back to simple
just so you guys can see. I just set it
to that so you could see I was on 5K.
All right, so 20 quite high.
Now, reflex in this scenario when you're
completely GPU bound will always lower
your latency. Doesn't always do a
perfect job, but it will always lower
your latency. If I go enabled,
latency is pretty much the same. Comes
down like a tiny bit, but it's pretty
much the same. It should do a lot better
than that. I don't know what's going on.
So, I really feel like it's forced on
all the time.
and we'll go back in. We'll do plus
boost, which you wouldn't want to do
plus boost in this scenario. You only
want to do plus boost when you're
CPUbound. Um, and I would say that's
generally always under 90% GPU usage. If
you don't mind your 1% lows being worse,
you can go plus boost, but usually for
most of you, I just recommend enabled.
See, the latency hasn't really come down
that much.
Okay, maybe it has a little bit, but not
much. So,
I feel like
disabled is technically enabled. Enabled
is enabled. Enabled. And enabled plus
boost is enabled plus boost. Really
don't know what's going on there, but
I'll show you guys some stuff later.
Unfortunately, future frame rendering
doesn't work to boost frames on
DirectX12, but it will add latency.
It's not really worth actually. No, it's
not even Oh, yeah. It added a little bit
of latency. It's not worth using at all.
It will will not boost your frames. Uh
that game that setting's kind of become
obsolete ever since um Battlefield
started using DirectX12. Honestly, this
used to be great on DirectX11 titles.
Don't use this one. Now, regarding
audio, this is all preference, guys, but
at the moment, I've been having really
good luck with 3D headphones and default
mix.
If you loved using loudness EQ in Call
of Duty, just try war tapes. War tapes
fell. This will destroy your ears. But
if all you care about is hearing
footsteps when they actually exist,
because sometimes they don't, try war
tapes. Default mix is kind of a
combination between
normal, which is high dynamics, and war
tapes, but it's so there's a little bit
of loudness EQ, but not heaps. So, it's
kind of nice. We already talked about
the console command before. If you want
to use the tracker, I believe you need
to have this on. I would recommend
turning scoreboard ping on so you can
see what like latency that you're
actually on in the scoreboard
and honestly the rest of the stuff is
personal preference. One last thing to
let you guys know as part of the user
config post process depth of field
method to zero and world render motion
blur enable set to zero technically
won't get loaded by the game unless you
manually put these in every time you
load a map. So I'll show you what that
looks like. All right, guys. Once you've
loaded into a map, press the console
key, which is next to one. The one on
the left next to one. You to type doof.
It's going to be easier. And then press
the down arrow key and then press enter.
It'll say what it's currently at. See
how it's actually at circular. Press the
down arrow key again cuz that'll
actually bring up the last one that
you've typed. Just type zero and then
press enter. That'll get rid of
suppression blur. And the other one was
motion blur. So, we just type blur. B L
U R. Go down. Go down. And then press
enter. What's that currently at? And
that's currently at false. So, it looks
like they've updated the game where the
user config accepts motion blur enabled
to false, but it does not accept depth
of field. So, you'll have to enter the
depth of field every time you launch the
game. Um, not launch the map. So, if you
start a new map, you're going to have to
re-enter that in. Um, but it will help,
especially suppression blur or explosion
blur, I found. Uh, it'll get rid of that
entirely, which is quite nice.
Benchmarks are tested with these specs.
Do not expect identical results on your
hardware. That said, you can expect
similar FPS and latency scaling with my
recommendations. These guides are GPU
focused, designed to reduce GPU load,
lower latency, and let your CPU push
maximum frame rate. Tests are done in
repeatable GPUbound scenarios for
consistency, but real world performance
may vary. I can't account for your CPU
RAM strength, tuning, or how the game
handles CPU load in live gameplay. If
the CPU expectations, check hardware
reviewer CPU game benchmarks. While I
test on high-end hardware, similar
scaling applies on most systems unless
your CPU bottlenecks. All right, guys.
Let's get started with the benchmarks.
Just so you guys know, I have done a lot
of these tests in 4K. Not all of them,
but quite a lot. Because I have a 5090,
we actually won't really see much
scaling if I were to benchmark a lot of
this stuff in lower resolution. I do do
some lower resolutions later for
specific things, and you will see, but
just so you guys know, because a lot of
you out there won't have a 5090. Right
now, let's get started with it. 4K
default settings.
173 FPS and 19 mconds input lag. And
with a config, we're capped out at 300
FPS because of a reflex file limit.
We'll talk about that later, at 10
milliseconds input lag. If I'm to remove
the FPS limit, which I will show you
guys how to do later, it's 313 FPS
and I can't get a latency measurement
reading, but I do end up doing some
external latency tests later just to
show you guys the difference. Now, if
any of you guys played the beta, you'll
remember that the EA client had massive
issues with the overlay. If you didn't
have the overlay on, you would lose a
ridiculous amount of frames. That's been
fixed, which is great to see. Here's the
Steam version at 313 FPS. We've
obviously removed the reflex file here
to uncap the frames, just just to see
scaling. With the Steam overlay, we
actually lose some 1% lows and lose a
little bit of FPS here. Um, I don't know
if you guys remember all my guides I
always say turn overlays off. Here's a
great example of like why you should
turn them off. Um, with the EA client,
it looks like we're getting less frames.
But honestly, I would just say that's
like benchmark variation. I bet you if I
restarted the game and did it again,
it'll probably be fine. And with EA
overlay on, it's actually kind of the
same with the 1% lows right here. Um, it
looks a little lower. So, ideally, if
you guys can just leave overlays off for
all your game clients, that would be the
most ideal situation. Sometimes you have
to turn them back on to do in-game
purchases, but just thought I'd let you
guys know that.
Now, what about the high resolution
textures installed versus not installed?
Now, on the Steam client, to uninstall
them, I had to uncheck these. Um,
specifically, you probably only had to
uncheck this one just for multiplayer
cuz we were testing multiplayer, but I
did it for all of these just in case.
And I found that the game folder was
still 70 gig. So, I don't know if that's
a bug or it somehow just switched it off
and put them in a different folder. But
to be safe, what I did was I uninstalled
the game, made sure these were unin
unchecked, and then reinstalled the
game. So, just do that because the game
isn't that big. It shouldn't take you
too long to redownload the game. Now, I
personally noticed no difference with
the higher resolution textures on 1440p.
That would probably be very different um
on a 4K monitor. Right. So, with the
config on 4K, we do know what the FPS
value is. 313 FPS. With the higher
resolution textures installed, still
using the config, um, it's pretty much
exactly the same. So, didn't really see
a difference there. I thought it'd be a
really good idea to test the default
config, you know, with most things ultra
and see if there was a difference there.
And we actually start to see a bit of a
difference there. So 173 fps on the
default settings. And if I install the
high resolution textures, we actually
basically get the same frames, the same
latency, but our 0.1% lows come down a
little bit. So ideally, because I didn't
notice a huge difference, I think as a
safe
practice, just have the high resolution
textures uninstalled. Um, unless you're
genuinely going for like a 4K ultra
realistic experience with a single
player, I would just have the high
resolution textures uninstalled just in
case.
Let's talk about Nvidia Frame Gen. I've
had to leave the reflex file in the game
to allow the 300 FPS cap because if you
want to use frame gen, it actually uses
reflex. Just so you guys know that. You
guys have all seen the bottom one with
the config. 300 FPS at 10 milliseconds
input lag. Frame gen x times 2 is 457
fps at 15.8 milliseconds input lag with
frame gen 3. Now you need a 50 series
card to do three and four just so you
guys know. So most of you will only be
able to do frame gen 2 64 fps at 17.5
milliseconds input lag and frame gen 4
at 765 fps at 18.9 milliseconds input
lag. So basically when you start adding
the extra frame gen, so from you've gone
from two to three or three to four, it
increases the latency. Now keep in mind
guys, these are fake frames and you will
get artifacts. Even with frame gen 2, I
did notice some artifacts myself,
especially with an iron sight next to a
burning car. Sometimes I had a double
iron sight, but it is not too bad. Now,
I've gone a little crazy with this game
because of this reflex default 300 FPS
cap, and I genuinely think it is a
high-end PC issue where the frame pacing
and the input feels off, like completely
off. It's almost like animation area,
and it's driven me crazy, which led me
down this rabbit hole with this game,
which is why you guys have such a
detailed video here, but we'll talk
about that a little bit later. But what
I did find with Nvidia frame gen is that
fixed that weird input uh frame pacing
animation issue for me just just using
frame gen times 2 which is really really
nice. Now you guys are going to notice
something really interesting when you
get lower GPU usage frame gen latency
comes down a lot more. It gets very
interesting. Okay so let's go to the
next one where we test the same thing
but on 1440p.
1440p, no frame gen, 300 fps at 9.6
milliseconds input lag.
Our latency came down because it is much
lower GPU usage cuz we're now only
rendering 1440p pixels on the 5090.
Frame gen* 2 157 fps at 11.5
milliseconds input lag. Now that latency
increase isn't that much, is it?
Compared to how it was in 4K, it's
actually a lot less and it's hardly
noticeable. So frame gen has come a long
way guys. I remember with Modern Warfare
3 at 400 FPS as a base. If you use frame
gen, it would add something crazy like
12 milliseconds input lag. So Nvidia
have been doing some really good work on
frame gen. And it is good to see cuz
this game is actually using a slightly
newer frame gen model. And TLDDR you
guys can actually force a different
frame gen model with the Nvidia app or
Nvidia profile inspector. So say you
keep you want you're still playing this
game in like two years time and you want
to try the new frame gen model and the
latency might be better. You can
actually do that. It's really cool. So
when we do frame gen times 3 got 821 FPS
and the latency does come up. Um and
then when we go frame J gen Gen 4
latency comes up even more to 15.6
milliseconds input lag and we have 964
FPS. Now I at least on my system I did
try all the different frame genens and I
would say
1440p was play playable with frame gen x
times 2 which is just the default on
which basically any card can use any
Nvidia card can use. Um I didn't like
three and four and I didn't specifically
like frame gen on 4K either. I did feel
that input lag. Now I want you guys to
pay attention to the 1% lows. It seems
to boost the 1% lows a little bit too.
Just keep in mind they're fake 1% lows
as well. And it would be really nice if
it actually boosted those um a lot more,
but in reality it's it's fake frames. So
So it is what it is. So, what I'm trying
to say is that maybe if you have a
really good card, frame gen latency
isn't too bad considering as long as
your GPU usage isn't too high. Um, but
I'd say the the higher the res and the
higher the GPU usage, the more lengths
you're going to get with frame gen, at
least specifically on this model because
guys, this is going to be different per
game basis. Um, some games are going to
use a much older model, but like I said,
you can use a newer model through the
Nvidia output profile inspector. Maybe
I'll do a video on that one day and do
some extensive tests on different
different models, but that would be kind
of interesting. But anyway, let's move
on.
Now, I was able to get AMD Frame Gen to
work um and actually show by removing
the reflex file to remove the FPS cap
and it would actually let me use AMD
Frame Gen. So this is the method that I
used to test it. Um because obviously if
I remove the reflex file, I can't use
the Nvidia app to measure latency. So
say me removing the reflex file here. Um
to remove the FPS cat limit. I don't
know what the developers are doing. Um
they need to fix that. It actually gives
me access to frame generation. So I was
able to actually test that for you guys.
Rather frustrated with the developers,
guys. I did a Twitter post and asked a
lot of you um in Discord to actually
sort of reply to this comment. Any
chance of fixing the engine FPS cap to
300 FPS on Nvidia cards only. This isn't
an issue on AMD, by the way. Issue does
not exist on AMD GPUs. Not a problem for
both betas for Nvidia. My community
tried many different things and drivers.
Frustrating to benchmark test on
high-end PCs with competitive settings
with a 300 FPS cap, right? So, a lot of
people kind of commented on this um and
the developers did see it, but they
decided to reply to someone else's post
um within my post instead. I just want
them to acknowledge it. Just say we're
aware of the issue and we're not going
to fix it or we are going to fix it.
That's all I want to hear from you guys
cuz then I can just move on with my
life. Look at this comment here.
Someone's complaining about their
cooling on a 5900X,
which honestly like
I'll get to that in a little bit. If I
click on this, David Serland replies to
him, doesn't reply to me or acknowledge
my tweet.
And the insane thing is
David Serland actually recommends
the most dumbest fix ever. He recommends
someone that made a video that changes
your CPU counts to run half the CPU to
turn the threads off. Now, that's not
the fix. The reality is this bloke just
needs a better cooler. His cooler is
probably quite old now and the pump's
probably gone bad. I've seen that happen
with a lot of AIO's and Battlefield in
general just gets your CPU to run hot.
It's a DirectX12 title. Direct X12 will
utilize all your cores and all your
threads. Um, and that's a good thing.
High CPU usage is a good thing,
especially direct extort. That's how it
was made. It's made to use all of your
CPU. Um, and this fix, by the way, we'll
get to later, harms your 1% lows
massively. So, David Sland, I'm quite
annoyed. I wish you guys would
acknowledge my tweet. Um, just say
you're aware of it or thank you and
we'll look into it or sorry, we're not
going to do anything about it. I'd be
fine. I just want to get acknowledged.
That would be nice. Um, because it is a
massive issue. your official PC release
trailer says 4K graphics uncapped frame
rate. Now, honestly, that's a lie. So,
just acknowledge it um and either work
on it or just be like, "Look, it's
something wrong with Reflex. We'll look
into it." Um that's all I want to know.
Otherwise, this is literally false
advertising. Now, if you guys are
wondering why I'm so passionate about
this, it's because guys, like in the
future, we're going to be upgrading our
hardware and like this might be the next
Battlefields for another 4 years. So,
what's the point on upgrading hardware
and trying to get more frames if we're
just going to be capped to like 300,
just like 2042 was? 2042 was capped to
for literally, oh my god, I think I went
through four CPU upgrades and four GPU
upgrades, and it was always at 330. Mind
you, on the first few generations of
cards, I was on 1080p, and now I'm on
1440p, but that's not the point. The
engine limit on 2042 was 330 and it
didn't matter how much better hardware
that you bought or got, that was still
the limit. So, this is false
advertising. All right, we're off on a
tangent there. Now, AMD frame
generation, 4K, no frame generation.
Keep in mind, this has been measured
externally. Okay, so on my 500 Hz 1440p
monitor with 150 render resolution. So,
this will also include the latency from
a 500 Hz um OLED and also the latency
from a super light, also the latency
with the irido tool, just so you guys
know. So, 312 FPS at 14.97 milliseconds
input lag. Um, and then with AMD frame
generation on, 437 FPS at 21.49
milliseconds input lag. So, um,
obviously Nvidia just does it better in
terms of frame generation,
but I mean it is what it is. I would
imagine that latency would be a little
bit better on 1440p with lower GPU usage
just like um Nvidia um it's frame gen
but um unfortunately guys I didn't test
that and just to let you guys know I'm
not entirely happy with measuring
latency externally it can be a little
bit variable so sometimes you need to
take4 of a millisecond with a latency
tool with a within a grain of within a
grain of salt um there is always like a
variation within the external tool
depending on the temperature of the room
and things like bad. Um, and also
relying on muzzle flash isn't the
greatest. It is quite difficult. Um, but
unfortunately I wasn't able to use the
reflex reflex box flash when I remove
the reflex file. We're going to talk
about that now. So to remove the FPS
limit on Nvidia cards, and this is
Nvidia cards only in the Battlefield 6
folder, you can remove both or just one
of these files. These are the reflex
files to break reflex, but it actually
turns reflex entirely off. And then you
can't use it in the game. You also won't
be able to use frame generation. There's
the location for the single player as
well. If you wanted to uncap your frame
rate for Nvidia cards on single player,
you can remove one or both of these
files. If you guys are going to do that,
I would recommend backing them up
somewhere safe so you can put them back
rather than having to scan and repair
with the game launcher. Now, without
removing the reflex file, I found
something kind of interesting. Reflex
off, 300 fps, 10.6 milliseconds input
lag. Reflex on, 298 milliseconds input
lag at 11 milliseconds,
298 FPS at 11 milliseconds input lag.
And then reflex on plus boost 298 FPS at
10.3 milliseconds input lag. Now, here's
where it's quite interesting because I'm
got quite high GPU usage here. To me, it
seems like reflex is always forced on.
Um, and that's left me really scratching
my head. I'm going to be honest with
you, and you guys will see a little bit
later. I believe that reflex is always
forced on no matter what, even in an off
state. And that's why the frames are
capped to 300 um on Nvidia cards. So
these latency measurements were measured
with the Nvidia app, which is basically
frame view baked into it. Now we
actually get out the external tool to
see kind of what's going on. So maybe we
don't necessarily have to trust Nvidia's
latency stat. Um, so all these tests are
done with the external tool right here,
but the first the bottom three are with
a reflex file left in the game and the
top one is with reflex file taken out so
we can uncap the frame rate. We've
measured externally so we can see
scaling with latency. So with reflex off
in game but the file still there capped
at 300 10.57 milliseconds input lag.
Reflex on still capped at 300 10.89
milliseconds input lag. That's really
weird. Like on is supposed to lower the
latency. Um plus boost. Once again,
we're still capped at 300 FPS because of
that reflex file at 10.96 milliseconds
input lag. So, I really don't know
what's going on here because you guys
saw earlier on in the video um in the
test range I switched between the
different reflex models and for 5K I
believe it was and we did see maybe a
little bit of scaling, but it seems like
um I really think reflex is forced on.
So, this is where it gets really
interesting. if we remove the reflex
file entirely um you know in the the
test area that I'm at 373 FPS but our
latency comes up which is really
interesting and I've got GPU usage and
CPU usage just so you guys can see here
as well. So when you know obviously
running the higher frame rate that the
CPU and the GPUs have just come up now
because my latency has gotten higher
here. I think that reflex is actually
always on. Um and it seems like the best
latency is kind of like keeping the
reflex file um with the 300 fps cap. the
ideal fix and the ideal solution would
be able to have an uncapped frame rate
like the beta like the two beta weekends
with a reflex file. That would be the
ideal situation. Um, so at the moment
you could potentially be harming your
latency by removing the reflex file even
though you may get more frames if you
have a high-end machine. So let's remove
the reflex file and we'll basically do
exactly the same thing here with the
external tool to test latency. Um, and
then the first the bottom three we keep
the reflex file and the top one we
remove the reflex file. Um, because I
wanted to test in more of a GPUbound
situation to see more of what was going
on. So, just to confirm, the bottom
three have the reflex file there and the
top one has a reflex file removed
and we're testing in 5K to just be
completely GPU bound to see if there is
any scaling with reflex. With reflex
off,
15.79 milliseconds input lag. With
reflex on, 15.79 milliseconds input lag.
With reflex plus boost, 15.05
milliseconds input lag. So, I genuinely
think that off is on, on is on, and plus
boost is plus boost. It's really odd.
Really, really odd. Now, if we remove
the reflex file, reflex actually gets
turned off. That's the only way to, you
know, um, undercap the frame rate. And
look at our latency come up. So
potentially, you could actually harm
your latency by removing this reflex
file. Dice, please fix, let us run a
fully uncapped frame rate with reflex.
That would be the ideal situation. Also,
DICE, please fix your engine. If we turn
reflex off in game, it needs to actually
be off, please.
Right. I decided to test sort of the
same thing in the test range here just
to make sure I wasn't going insane. So,
remove the reflex file test range. So,
the bottom one here, we've left the
reflex file in the game files capped at
300 fps at at 2K, you know, with the
lower GPU usage. Um, sorry, 1440p 10.05
05 milliseconds input lag with reflex
off, which is technically still on
because for some reason the game code is
just bugged. And then if I remove the
reflex file at 560 FPS in the test
range, my latency actually comes up
here. So potentially I'm probably going
to look at just making the reflex file
removed if I main 1440p on a 5090. But a
lot of you guys with lowerend GPUs,
first of all, there's probably no point
removing it at all cuz you're not going
to be getting higher than that. in a lot
of matches. But yeah, it's it's harming
the it's harming the latency because it
makes sense. Like reflex is actually
turned off. So frames doesn't always
necessarily win games. There's more to
frames. Some engines might have a a
sweet spot at a certain frame rate for
latency, but I would still have higher
frames than 300 because I have a high
refresh rate monitor. Edit is just
smoother. And I can tell you right now
that the game is much smoother for me
with a reflex file removed. There is
something wrong with the frame pacing.
um the animations or the input, I can't
explain it. It's like animation error.
Like I said, frame gen fixed that for
me. Another thing that fixed it for me
was completely removing the reflex file.
It just felt a lot better. Um I'm not
saying you should go ahead and do that.
I'm showing you guys that you're
probably going to harm your legs going
ahead and doing that. Probably only
worth doing it on a very high-end
system. Uh but it's just interesting.
Ideally, if you got dice, you could just
fix this. We could just have uncapped
frame rate with reflex. That would be
ideal. The beta was so much better. I
don't know what they've done with this
release. All right, we have future frame
rendering in game. Now, this one used to
make a huge difference on the older
Battlefields, especially Battlefield 5
and especially DirectX11. On DirectX12,
I found, especially on um Battlefield 5
with DirectX12, which you would never
want to do anyway, the meta was
DirectX11 with future frame rendering on
and still is to this day. Um and then
also DirectX12 with Battlefield 2042.
Um, it seemed like render ahead didn't
do anything. Um, and it just didn't help
and it almost didn't even work. And I'll
show you guys that here. I feel like
this is an obsolete setting that
shouldn't even be in the game uh for
some reason. So, future frame rendering.
Now, by default, um, you can actually
change the game in the the setting in
the game to just future frame rendering
on, which is technically, you know, two
two frames render ahead. Um, but in the
console command, you can actually kind
of go three and four. So, I've got some
tests here. I'm going to be honest. I
actually, if you look at these results,
future frame rendering isn't working.
And if it is, potentially it's harming
1% lows instead of actually doing
anything or 0.1% lows. But, you really
could just say that's within benchmark
variation. And I'm just going to say
it's within I don't think this setting
is working at all. But there it is,
guys. And obviously I wasn't able to
test latency on the top three because we
had to remove the reflex file. But there
you go. Um
I don't think this setting works. It
used to be great on all the Battlefields
with DirectX11. Just don't even bother
using it. Um and I wouldn't recommend
future frame rendering anyway. Um the
best latency is always going to be
maximum pre-rendered frames one. Let's
talk about hags hardware accelerated GPU
scheduling which is on by default for
Windows 11 and off by default on Windows
10. If you're on 10, you want to turn it
on. Um 10 is end of life. So most of you
aren't going to be on 10 anymore anyway
unless you use the extended security
updates. Right? So you would think this
is like one and done. Leave hags on,
right? Well, it it gets really
complicated on high-end hardware in a
CPUbound situation. So obviously GPU
bound situation here. These measure
these tests were done with the Nvidia
app. Um with the reflex file still in
the game. Um so reflex is still you know
technically on kept at 300 FPS at 10.1
milliseconds input lag and then we turn
hags off and our latency comes up a
little bit and our 1% lows get harmed.
So that's it, right? Leave hags on. End
of story. Well, not entirely because
something gave me inkling to just test
this a little bit more.
um in more of a CPUbound situation or
more of a setting that I could get more
frames. Just something told me to just
test it a little bit further. So, I did.
And here's where it gets really
interesting. In the test range where
there is no CPU load,
hags on versus hags off. On hags off, I
get quite a huge FPS boost and it scales
even more with lower uh resolution or
lower GPU usage.
And that kind of drove me insane. And I
got a bunch of other people to test it
um on their machines. And there were
some machines that actually saw scaling
or said that they felt that the game
felt better. Um and there were some
people that just didn't see any scaling
at all. They didn't lose frames. They
didn't gain frames, but they said it
felt better. And this is for Nvidia
only, by the way. AMD, you definitely
don't want to turn it off. If you have a
7,000 series or 9,000 series AMD
graphics card and you're on 11, just
leave hags on. But for specifically for
Nvidia cards and high-end cards, you
might want to experiment with like
trying hags off because I feel like it's
doing something weird. Right. When we go
here, these tests here, these are
obviously within my portal match where
the CPU is actually getting loaded up uh
with 32 bots running around underneath
me. The test range is there's no real CP
load here. But how is there such big
scaling? I mean, check this out, right?
the test range with hags on um 684 fps
with hags off 771 FPS. Why is there such
a big difference? Hags usually should
always be left on and it usually makes
quite a nice difference. Um you know,
obviously here it's only boosting up
0.1% lows a little bit, but um I did
test it uncap too, just so you guys
know. Um, and it was the same without
the reflex file um, within the actual
uh, benchmark that was CPU more CPU
bound with the bots running around like
a real match. But yeah, what's going on
here? So, I got a couple of the guys in
Discord to test for me and that was
really helpful. Um, and one of the BS
would just call him Discord user one. He
saw no difference. Maybe slightly like,
you know, slightly less frames. I'm
going to call that variation, but maybe
the 1% lows came up a little bit. Um, it
definitely changed the usage a little
bit honestly. Hags off makes high GPU
usage and I did see that on my system
too. Um, and then we we have someone and
I believe this guy had a one of the
newer cards. I can't remember exactly
what this guy had. And here's where it
gets really interesting. This bloke
actually has a 3090 and I believe he is
on 1080p.
He got a FPS boost in the CPUbound map.
Not even not even the um the GPUbound
map uh in the test range in the actual
match. I gave him my portal code with
all the bots running around which is
very very kind of accurate and onetoone
with what a real match performs like.
How does he get a 20 fps boost on a 3090
on 1080p? Um in Yeah, so there's
something going on with hags and it's
really weird. And the odd thing is um
the the developers actually recommend to
have it on. And look at the PC
requirements literally at the bottom
here, at least for the open beta, they
say enabling hardware accelerated GPU
scheduling is recommended. And then
there's actually some write up about
this. So um I I I really don't know
what's going on. I I I feel like maybe
the game code needs a look at now.
Another Discord user here, he had a
5090. He saw scaling in the test range
with tags um off. Um uh one of my
friends here, he's got the same system
as me. He saw some scaling quite a lot
from 680 to 742 FPS. Um and then um
thank god someone in my Discord decided
to test with an AMD card. He got less
frames with Hags off. So, if you're on
an AMD card, please just leave hags on.
But if you're an Nvidia card,
potentially turn it off and do your own
tests. You might see some scaling there
or the game might feel a little bit
better. Um, it's not something that I
want to recommend everyone to do and
include in the config or a link tags in
the config, but it's definitely
something that needs to be talked about.
I decided to test resizable bar. So, to
enable it and just to be sure it was on,
I have it on in BIOS and then forced on
in the game profile. And to turn it off,
I have it off in BIOS and I have it
forced off in the game profile just to
be sure there's nothing weird going on.
Okay? Especially with the drivers
because sometimes Nvidia white list
drivers and it will actually be on even
if you don't think it is on and other
times it can be off even though you
think it might be on. So 4K with
resizable bar on 313 FPS with reflex
file removed just so we can see the max
frame rate and you know 222 1% lows 202
0.1% lows and rebar off basically the 1%
lows are pretty much close enough and we
get less frames. So obviously rebar is
actually helping here in a GPUbound
situation and um it is not harming our
1% lows like it has in some Call of Duty
titles with certain Nvidia drivers. So
it's definitely something that you want
to leave on. And if it isn't doing
anything for you, it's at least not
harming your 1% lows. I got Discord user
5 to test on his AMD card too, which is
very helpful. Thank you. You guys know
who you are. Thank you all. Um and he
got slightly less um FPS with rebar off.
Um, rebar's usually something you always
want to leave on, especially with AMD
cards, you can really harm your
performance. So, um, basically just
leave rebar on for everyone. Um, and if
you're an Nvidia card, if you use my
config, it will be forced on in the
Nvidia profile inspector. And obviously,
you guys just make sure you have it on
in BIOS as well. Okay guys, I want to
talk about SMT CPU usage threads and
core count because there's been a lot of
stuff going on online about changing
your core count. You saw David Surin
actually recommend one of those videos
which really frustrated me. I'm going to
show you guys something here. DirectX12
is made in a way where it will utilize
your full CPU. I remember about 6 years
ago we were sharing some video demos of
DirectX12 in my Discord being very
excited at how it will utilize your CPU
more and you will get more frames um
with DirectX12 over DirectX11. So, when
people are getting high CPU usage in
Battlefield and carrying on about, oh
no, my temps on high CPU usage and they
think that's a bad thing. It's not a bad
thing. It's a really good thing. High
CPU usage means the game's using your
CPU and it's spinning out as many frames
as you can. Um, high GPU usage is is
quite a lot different. Generally
speaking, you want to keep GPU usage
down. Um, you don't want to keep the CPU
waiting for the GPU. Um, but high CPU
usage is good. Um, and you want the game
to fully utilize the CPU cuz it means
you're getting as many frames as you
can. So, this is, you know, SMT or
hyperthreading on. As you can see here,
it's utilizing my full CPU. Um, and
we're at 61% CPU usage. I mean, we are
in 4K here. If I went lower resolution,
we would get more frames and it would be
slightly higher CPU usage, but we've
done most of the tests in 4K here, so
we're just going to continue to do that.
Now, if I disable SMT in BIOS, my CPU
usage goes higher, obviously, because we
don't have any of the threats. These are
just running on the course. Guess what
happens? My 1% lows get harmed. Not
good. And literally, 99% of games you
want to leave hyperthreading or SMT on.
Please don't turn it off. Now,
this is the thing that's been getting
around. People are recommending to do
this. basically get your game to only
run on the cores and not the threads,
which is very, very similar to just
going in BIOS and disabling SMT. Pay
attention to these 1% lows here. We go
ahead and do that. Our 1% lows are
worse.
And this time, you can you can't see too
well because of the way that the game
handles, but my CPU usage has come down
cuz this time we actually have all the
threads on for Windows, but the game is
only using the thread, the cores. The
game is only using the cores. See, see
this is um you see slightly lower CPU
usage there, lower CPU usage there,
lower CP. So, the game actually isn't
utilizing all the cores. It is harming
our 1% lows. So, guys, please don't do
this one. This is not a good tweak. Um
you're basically like turning off
threads for your CPU by doing this and
you're going to make your game run
worse. Now, if your CPU is thermal
throttling because it's running too hot,
that's a U issue and that's something
that you need to fix with your cooler.
That's always been a Battlefield thing
where Battlefield get your CPU to run
hot. And maybe maybe you have one of
those weird CPUs with a dual CCD like
AMD where if you run the game on both
CCDs, you get that CCD latency and
you're using this and thinking it's it's
way better. Potentially, you guys are
really harming your 1% latency. That
that's what I'm trying to say. So,
please don't do it. Now, I'm going to
show something even more to just prove
my point. What if I change this to 16?
Cuz guys, I have eight cores and eight
threads. So, technically, the game would
see that as process count 16. And you
know, you know, process account is 16,
right? If I do that, look, my 1% lows
almost come back to normal, but
something isn't quite right with the
FPS, which I'll get to a little bit
later, but I believe the game is
reserving uh two threads. So, maybe call
one and thread one. I believe the game
is reserving that. Um, but look, pretty
much like back to normal almost. So,
yeah, guys, please don't do this one.
You're just harming your 1% lows here.
Now, let's put all of that in a in a
benchmark graph so you guys can see
visually what what the hell is going on.
Let's start with the bottom here. Okay,
SMT hyperthreading on, you guys have
seen this benchmark before. If we turn
the SMT off or the hyperthreading off in
BIOS, we're only running the game on the
cores. And also, we're also pegging the
CPU usage because you have to run
Windows in the background, too. It's not
the ideal way to do it. Worse 1% lose.
Okay. And this is tested in the
portal map where I've got bots running
around which is a very very similar
frame rate to what I actually get in a
real match. So we have actually got the
CPU under load. Um if we use the launch
commands, it's the same thing here.
We're literally getting the game to not
run on the threads at all. That that's
horrible. You don't want to do that. You
don't want to [__] your CPU performance.
Um, and then if we do on with launch
commands, which so this was eight and
eight and this was 16 and 16 like I
showed you guys before, our 1% loads
pretty much almost come back to normal,
but worse of worse frames. And we'll get
to that later. Like I said, I believe
the game is is reserving um core one and
thread one. And I think that's probably
a good thing with the way this game
engine works. Now, what about let's test
this on 1440p and make it way more
CPUbound, especially with a 5090 with my
config. Um, way more CPUbound. All
right. So, SMD hyperthreading on
362 FPS, 273 1% lows. 245 0.1% lows.
Same thing again here, but this time it
gets really interesting. We actually
lose frames here. We actually lose
frames and 1% loads. Um, turning that
off in BIOS. If we use the render count
thing at 8,
um, it's a little bit better. Um, we
still lose 1% lows compared to just
having like it completely utilizing all
of the CPU. Um, and then if we turn it
on, it's come better, but not entirely
fixed and slightly less FPS. Like I
said, I believe this game is reserving
for one thread one, and that is a good
thing. So, well, I believe that's that's
next. I noticed something interesting
with the game engine. On default, it has
something called thread min unused
process account at two. So what does
that look like? Job threads 14. I
believe that the game is reserving core
one and thread one for Windows because I
have seen that in a long time ago some
games would do better if you didn't have
core one and thread one on the game. I
believe that's what's happening here and
the way that the frostbite engine works.
Um, correct me if I'm wrong. Um,
especially one of you developers that
know how this Frostbite engine works.
But I can only guys I can only show you
guys scaling and benchmarks. It's all I
can do. I'm not a game developer. I
barely know code. I just know basic
PowerShell. So I am not a game developer
and I know designing a game engine or
using a game engine um and upgrading a
game engine can be quite difficult. So
to try to remove that, what we can do
here is in our user config, we can go
thread min unused process account to
zero. So we basically utilize our full
16 threads. All the eight cores and the
eight threads from the CPU. Now if I go
back into the game now, it will say CPU
cores 16 and job thread 16. So no longer
two are reserved. And another thing I
found going into Regedit,
this is uh actually a thing for all
Battlefields. So Battlefield 6 event was
the beta, Battlefield 5, 2042,
Battlefield 1. You can see stuff that's
been installed in my system. I don't
know what this is or this does. I just
thought I'd show you guys. But um
anyway, so basically um turning those
reserved threads off makes things worse,
so don't do it. And this was very very
similar to what we were doing when we
were forcing 16
here and here. See how the kind of frame
rate came down a little bit. It's
exactly the same thing. So cuz doing 16
here
is the same thing as
red min unused process account.
that. Okay, I just want to let you guys
know. So, I tested that individually on
4K with a reflex file removed, 313 FPS.
Um, and then basically the same frames,
at least on 4K, but worse at 1% lows um
with removing the reserve threads. And
on 1440p, we saw the same thing here.
Uh, but this time our frame rate came
down as well as our 1% lows. So,
definitely those two threads reserved is
a good thing. You guys just need to
leave it by default. If your CPU usage
is high, that is a good thing. It's
spitting out as many frames as it can.
And if you're, you know, stuttering
because your temps are high, that's a U
problem that you need to fix, either
with your cooler or your BIOS settings.
Okay, there might genuinely be some
people out there that are thermal
throttling and changing the game to only
run on the cores only is more frame
serum only purely for the fact that the
CPU is running too hot and it's thermal
throttling because their cooler is
scuffed or their bias settings are
scuffed. So, just to let you guys know.
Now, I decided to do the same thing in
the test range just to be sure. getting
at the test range this time and on 1440p
and we basically see the same thing
where we are potentially lose some 1%
lose. So yeah, leave it how it is guys.
Now I'm not going to gaslight you guys,
okay? In the test range,
having SMT off boosted frame rate and
here's why. The test range, there is no
CP load at all. Okay, there is no CP
load. So, you know, I guess there's no
latency between the cores and the
threads cuz that actually is a thing.
Um, so, you know, as an example, on 4K,
you don't see a huge difference, but on
720p in the test range on my CPU, you do
see a quite a huge increase with having
the the um the the threads off um in
BIOS, right? So, I don't want to
gaslight you guys, but here's the thing.
the test range. There is absolutely no
CPU load. In a real game, there is CPU
load. There's players running around.
There's AI running around. There's
explosions. There's everything like
that. And I showed you guys before um
doing that with the proper benchmark
from the Portal match, right, where
there's actually CPU load. It was
harming things, but I don't want to
gaslight you guys. In the test range, it
gave a boost in frames, but we're not
playing the test range. We're playing a
real match that's actually has CPU load.
I tested high priority, which I knew was
going to be a waste of time. This
antiche was quite difficult with trying
to get the game to not run on the
threads with infinity scripts. Um,
really hated it. Um, you can do a little
bypass with getting Steam to only run on
the cores and then launch the game. The
game hated that. Um, so obviously that's
why I had to resort to doing BIOS. Um,
but same thing with priority. So to
change priority for this game, you
actually have to do it in Reedit. That
seemed to be the only way that worked
for me. And that's what it look would
look like be under Perf options if you
wanted to force high priority. It's not
something that you want to do. I did
confirm that this worked after changing
that. I launched the game and it
definitely did work because if you were
to do it manually here, the antiche
would block it. And TLDDR it is worse.
And don't force high priority. The game
is normal by default. So basically the
frames didn't change much, but it was
really weird in 1440p. lost some frames
and lost some 1% lows and it looked like
maybe the latency was a little bit
higher on high priority. Now, this is
probably a thing that really helped old
systems like 15 years ago. It's not
something you want to do now. You don't
want to screw with the Windowsuler
because, you know, setting a game to
high priority. You still have background
Windows tasks that are fairly important.
Um, and they probably have things to do
with your, you know, mouse input and
bits and pieces and things like that.
and setting the the game to high
priority, it obviously causes issues and
and you can clearly see that here. So,
leave the game at default, which is
normal priority. And just to clear some
things up, I've obviously removed the
reflex file here for these tests, but I
redid the tests with the 300 FPS cap
just to show the latency cuz I knew some
people would have a cry if I didn't
include latency tests for like changing
the priority. It's not helping. Let's do
the same thing in the test range. Okay,
from what I see, the frames and the 1%
lowers are pretty much the same. Um, but
doing high priority makes the system
latency come up for the game. Uh, so
don't do it.
All right. I saw a video the other day
on this game, and I'm not going to name
the YouTuber who said he doesn't
understand why people cap their frames
to get lower latency, and he's never
ever seen that. The answer is it always
depends on GPU usage and usually reflex
Nvidia reflex or AMD anti- lag takes
care of the latency for you. So you
don't have to cap the frames to keep
under 90% GPU usage. But TLDDR it's
always best if you cap your frames to
keep under 90% GPU usage for latency so
the CPU isn't waiting for the GPU cuz
that's the latency issue. Okay, reflex
and anti-lag kind of fixes it but some
game engines it doesn't fully fix it.
The ideal situation is you just play
uncapped and you buy the fastest
graphics card you can and you use the
lowest settings you can for the lowest
GPU usage and spit out as many frames as
you can. That's the perfect scenario.
But I'm going to show you guys something
with this game engine because Reflex is
sort of like always on and it actually
does a fairly good job that I wanted to
show you where capping can actually make
a difference. So here is 5K at I think
we're getting 192 FPS. Um, our latency
is 17.7 milliseconds at 98% GPU usage.
Right? If I cap to 175, you stay under
90% GPU usage. Even with reflex, we've
gone from 17.7 milliseconds input lag to
15.3. So, yes, there is scaling. And
it's more obvious on some games that
don't have a good reflex implementation
or don't have reflex at all, but it
really depends on your GPU load. Okay?
And I've seen that a lot with other
games. The these are from some other
games as well. This is not for
Battlefield. This is for Call of Duty. I
just wanted to show you guys something.
This was with my 4090 uncapped 374 FPS
at 8.5 milliseconds input lag. If we cap
to I think it was 235
comes down and this game had reflex on
as well. So there is scaling. It can
just depend on the engine and can depend
on the reflex implementation and depends
on your GPU load and GPU usage. Perfect
world, best card, lowest GPU usage. All
right, the same with Marvel Rivals.
Actually, there's something weird with
this engine. Completely uncapped, 11.1
millconds input lag. If we cap in game
all the way down to 7 milliseconds input
lag by capping in game. And this game
was really weird with external caps as
well. So, that can depend too. And we're
going to talk about external caps with
this game soon. Um, which is right now.
And I'm kind of excited about it cuz
I've discovered something huge. Now, we
can actually cap to a different value in
the game, which is nice because in game
it only lets us cap to a max 240, which
is really frustrating. Developers let us
set a manual value um if we want to. But
anyway, I went in the config and set a
manual value and it actually worked. So,
that was really awesome.
Now, also to cap with the Nvidia driver.
So, to cap in game, that's how I did
that. To cap in the Nvidia driver,
that's how I did that. and to cap with
River Tuna, Async, and Nvidia Reflex.
That's how I did that. All right, for
these tests, we keep the reflex file on
and in the game. So, we'll be limited to
300 FPS for the bottom test. Pay
attention to the GPU usage, too. This is
the ideal situation. And this is
obviously in 4K with my 5090. 300 FPS at
10.1 milliseconds input lag, which is
great. If we cap in game to 290,
290 FPS at 10.5 milliseconds input lag.
So because our GPU usage is under 90 and
going from you know 87 to 84 our
latencies increased only simply because
our frame rate has come down and our 1%
lows have come down a little bit. All
right what about the Nvidia cap you know
same thing again 84% GPU usage 290 FPS
10.2 milliseconds input lag so the
Nvidia driver cap is actually better
than the in-game cap which is cool to
see. They have done some really nice
improvements with the driver cap. Um,
and 1% lows are actually a little bit
better too than the in-game cap, which
is cool to see. Now, MSI After Burners
reflex cap, right? Same thing again. 84%
GPU usage is 290. Our latency has kind
of come up like the in-game cap and our
1% lows are not better. Now, here's
where I've discovered something actually
insane, and this is going to kind of be
meta for a lot of you guys. Remember
before how I said there was some weird
frame pacing issue with the game and the
only thing to fix it for me was
potentially hags off on its own or
potentially removing reflex file or
potentially using frame gen times 2.
This did the same thing too and was
actually insane. If I cap with MSI after
burners async cap, our 1% lows take a
huge boost which is normal. Async cap
has always done that, but our latency
has come down to 8.6 milliseconds.
Just to let you guys know, usually
capping your frame rate with async cap
always increase latency. I've always
seen that on every other engine. It
would always increase latency massively.
This is an example. On Cyberpunk, I saw
an increase in latency with async cap,
but over 1 millisecond.
On Call of Duty, I saw an increase from
god 7.7 milliseconds to 13.3. And I've
seen that on a lot of game engines. Um,
it'll actually make your latency way
worse. So why, if I use MSI After
Burner's Async cap, does it fix frame
pacing, input, and animation error for
me entirely, regardless of looking at
the 1% lows and the latency and boosts
my 1% lows, which it always has, but
actually lowers the latency. the lower
the latency thing actually has my head
scratching and just tells me that there
is something wrong with the game and
there's something that the developers
need to fix. So guys, I think the meta
for a lot of you guys, if you don't have
a really highender machine and you're
not going to remove the reflex file and
uncap, and even if you just want the
lowest latency, like this is the lowest
I've been able to get the latency. If
you can cap to a frame rate that you can
maintain always with MSI after's async
cap, you will get a huge boost in 1%
lows. You'll potentially get lower
latency and it's going to be really,
really smooth. So this, I think, is
going to be the meta. Moving on, I was
unfortunately unable to test the anti-
well to test disabling core one and
thread one because of the anti-che, but
I have a feeling like I said before um
with reserve job threads being at two
and job threads only being at 14 for my
16th thread CPU. I have a feeling that
the game might already be reserving core
one and thread one. All right, let's
talk about HDR. Now, the only reason why
I benchmark this is I had someone in my
Discord say that they lost frames, um,
you know, with having HDR on, which is
just not true at all, guys. Um, HDR off,
the frame rate and the the 1% lows are
the same. Um, and HDR on, the latency,
HDR off versus HDR on, the latency is
identical. Now, this was measured
externally with my latency tool, and
this is only for OLED monitors. If you
guys have an OLED, there is no harm in
using HDR. If you guys have an IPS or TN
panel, I really don't recommend HDR at
all. It will increase your latency. All
right, OLEDs, it will not. So, it may be
worth trying out HDR if you have an OLED
monitor. And here is why. There's been a
lot of stuff online talking about
overexposure when you're inside a
building looking out and outside a
building looking in. Okay, so here is
default with HDR off me looking outside
a building. It is quite hard to see the
bus wheel where my crosshair is and
quite hard to see within the bus. If I
turn HDR on and just to let you guys
know this with HDR with a 1000nit mode
on my monitor with the HDR slider maxed
in Windows and the HDR slider maxed in
the game setting. Um, I can actually see
that wheel a lot easier. I can see
within the bus a lot easier as well. But
I'm going to be honest with you guys, I
really don't like HCR. I just don't like
the way it looks. Maybe I could get away
with it if I up the colors, but I'm
probably just not going to use it. And
I'll be honest with you, the game
developers just need to patch STR
because there shouldn't be this much
overexposure on STR. It is clearly a
bug. But for now, if you guys want meta
for visibility, HDR is probably meta.
All right, guys. TLDDR because this is
the most important thing after doing all
these tests and carrying on. Let's do
the TLDDR. Use my config. Simple as.
Covered some things. If you want the
game to look a little bit better after
using my config, turn launcher overlays
off. We get slightly better performance
with them off. Reinstall your game
without the high resolution textures.
Unless you're doing a single player 4K
ultra playthrough, don't bother with the
high resolution textures. ideally
reinstall your game with those
deselected. Nvidia frame gen just the
first setting times two if you have an
Nvidia card might be worth using and the
latency improves with frame gen with
higher frames and lower GPU usage. So
just keep that in mind. It might
actually be really nice if some of you
guys have a really low base FPS with
high GPU usage to look at maybe using
DLSS and frame generation if the game
doesn't look too horrible for you.
Reflex is always forced on. To remove
the 300 FPS limit, you need to remove
the SLR reflex. DLL and the SLPCL.dll
from the game folder. And it more than
likely is going to increase latency.
Nice. Need to fix this so we can have it
uncapped frame rate with low latency and
reflex. That would be ideal. Future
frame rendering doesn't work. And I've
seen that on 2042 and Battlefield 5 when
you use DirectX12. Um, on DirectX11 with
Battlefield V, it was quite a nice boost
in FPS. Um, we're not seeing any of that
here, so just don't touch it. Try hags
off on high-end Nvidia machines. It's
more than likely going to give most of
you worse FPS, but potentially something
like a 4090 or a 5090 playing in 1440p
or 1080p low settings. Hags off might
actually help you a little bit. Leave
resizable bar on. That helps. Don't
change CPU worker count or reserved
threads, guys. You're making the game
worse. High CPU usage is good. It means
your CPU is spinning out as many frames
as it can with the game engine. If your
thermal throttling or your temps are
ridiculously high, that's something that
you need to fix on your own. Something
going on with your cooler or your BIOS
settings.
Don't change game priority. We saw
things get worse when we did that.
Ideally cap GPU usage under 90% if you
can. It's going to totally depend on the
config that you run, the game settings,
and the card that you have. It's not as
important with this game though with
Reflex implemented, which is cool to
see. Async Rivet Tuners FPS cap lowers
latency and boosts 1% lows massively,
cap to a frame rate you can constantly
maintain. I genuinely think for most of
you, you guys need to try this and this
is going to be meta if you're not going
to be using frame generation.
H01 is meta right now. You guys saw the
photos. All right. And here's high
system notes. And this is sort of what
drove me crazy to test all these things.
And also just because genuinely I love
Battlefield and I just, you know, I'm
probably going to be playing this game
for the next 3 years.
Try individual fixes if you have a
high-end machine such as enabling frame
generation only on the two times the
first setting. Um, and these are
individual things. Try these
individually. You can try them together
if you if you like, but I'll just try
them individually. Remove the reflex
files to uncap your frame rate. Try
turning hags off and then try using an
async FPS cap. My favorite config so far
have best speed frame generation on the
two times. That fixed frame pacing input
issues for me on its own. The async cap
for me it was 290 for the async cap. I
can constantly maintain that or just
going balls to the wall with hags off
and no reflex file and just letting the
frame rate go completely uncapped. I'm
unsure on what I'm going to do. If I
switch to 4K permanently, I'll probably
use async cap at 237 fps keeping the
reflex file. Dice, please fix. I feel
like there's something wrong with
animation error or frame pacing or input
issues. And it can't be measured with 1%
lows and it can't be measured with input
lag. I can't quite explain it, but the
beta was way better than this. I felt
like I didn't need to test anything in
beta. So, the beta just ran better. And
I understand that um performance is
better on release when it comes to GPU
load. Um I never saw so many frames in
4K before, which is good to see. But
clearly something is off. Um especially
have a high-end machine. For you guys
that don't have higherend machines, you
might not be able to notice this, but
the something is incredibly off. Um, and
it's more noticeable on a high-end
machine with uh this weird reflex 300
FPS limit. Um, there's something off. It
just feels off. I can't quite explain
it. Hope this helped you guys. Most of
the things haven't changed since my last
video. The config's not really going to
change. Um, but you know, some of this
stuff might be worth looking at if you
have a high-end machine. Otherwise, just
leave things how they are and enjoy the
game. See you guys in the next one.
Thanks so much and come check me out on
Twitch. I'm going to be streaming this
game a lot. And guys, please sub if
you've gotten this far. Just sub. I put
so much effort. I've been testing this
game over 5 days. Um, it's been insane.
And if you followed me all the way
through for this video and watched it
way to the end, you truly are the OG.
Love you guys. See you in the next one.
Bye. Optimizing game settings and config
files can only do so much. Please
consider going through this GitHub guide
with video to cover the basic Windows
and BIOS optimizations. If hardware is
limiting your performance, please check
out my build guide for upgrade and PC
build suggestions. Make sure to update
to the latest graphics drivers or at
least the recommended version from the
game developer or game mentioned in
driver patch notes from the driver
developer. The Nvidia app with certain
settings turned on will cause frame rate
loss. Turn off optimized games and
creative applications. Turn off
automatically optimized newly added
games and apps. Avoid using game filters
and statistics. As far as AMD drivers,
I've not seen any tests, so just be
cautious. Game launchers should have
logging, game overlay, hardware
acceleration, and cloud sync turned off.
Please do this for web browsers,
Spotify, Discord, or anything else open
while you play. Any monitoring or RGB
program causes frame rate loss even
closed. This includes Asus Armory Crate,
MSI, Gigabyte, Azro driver utilities,
NZXT Cam, Corsair IQ, Lean Lee, L
Connect, and etc. Uninstall if possible.
Services and drivers for these apps
still run even if the apps are closed.
GPUZ, hardware info, MSI After Burner,
and etc. can cause frame rate problems
when logging GPU power. Close these out
when gaming or turn off GPU power
logging in the settings. If you like
your Windows game, BIOS, hardware, or
stream setup fresh, tuned, and
optimized, support me and book my PC
service. All links can be found in the
description below. Just check link tree.